cable company and so we wrapped around and
stretched them and it would have been pretty
difficult for it to move. I mean they would, the
tradition back then was, you know, if it's still
standing when the sun comes up, you know, we'll
probably win the game or something because those
things were so bound together that it was pretty
hard for them to move. Was anybody, do you remember
any injuries during your four years? Oh yeah, we
had guys that were injured but not What kind of
injuries? I don't know if anything serious. I
mean, there's guys that would not move their hands
around and get caught as they were loading
something on the truck and I'm sure there were some
broken bones and a few things like that. I remember
we had one kid, when I was a sophomore, there was a
kid that lived, this is unbelievable, I mean, we
lived on the third floor and there was a fish next to
us and he was He always seemed kind of depressed,
just about everything. And all of a sudden, one
day, his old lady comes in and says, Mr. Sharp, Fish
Cardinal, I think was his name. Probably ought not
to use his name, but he just tried to commit
suicide. And this kid had jumped face first out of
the dorm window onto the ground. And I looked down
there, and there was this kid spread out on the
ground. And fortunately, it had rained a lot the
day before, and he hit it, and it kind of was mud, and
we revived him, and then he left school right after
that. That was the kind of thing. And at that point
with Bonfire, did any of y'all worry about the
possibility of a serious, serious accident? No. I
don't ever remember even thinking about it. as you
think back about Bonfire, what importance, what
does Bonfire's importance value to A&M? Well, you
know, I told you before about how those Walton Hall
and some of those folks got by. I mean, I will
guarantee you that a whole bunch of former
students of A&M would take a look at some of their
best friends right now 20 years or 30 years later,
if you think about it, go back and there are people
they work right next to in building that. For the
core, the bonfire, a lot of part of the bonfire was
putting to the test all those leadership skills
that you've been learning for four or five years. I
mean it was the first practical way you had to do
this? Is somebody going to take orders? Are they
going to be disciplined enough to do exactly what
you say? Stay away from the chainsaws and don't
move the truck till we tell you and all this kind of
stuff. Can you take orders and can you follow
orders? And I think that was probably a big reason
that we never got, we always got people hurt, I'm
sure, but I don't remember any catastrophic deal.
And how long during your years, how long did an
individual work on Bonfire? Oh, some. A month?
Some for a month, you know, go to class sometimes
and go work on it. But all of us would work on it for,
you know, a couple weeks. But somebody was out
there in October, you know, cutting trees down and
getting them ready. See, I think this last year or
two, I think it started Labor Day. Yeah. It had
gotten bigger, bigger, bigger. Yeah, they didn't
talk about it much, but they were all out there
doing that stuff. I mean, right now, the kids are
coming to guys like me and gathered up money for the
next year's bonfire to pay for equipment and
stuff. It's been the better part of a year working
on it one form or another. Let's see. Bonfire,
silver taps,
midnight ale practice.
How much did your senior ring cost? About $90. The
rumor back then was, everybody couldn't believe
how cheap they were, and the rumor then was that the
Association of Farmer Students pays half of it. If
you go to my vintage at A&M and older, they still
believe that the Association of Farmer Students
paid half of that ring. And it's never been true,
best I can tell. How did you feel about that ring
when you first got it? I remember exactly where I
was in the Koch building when I put it on. Picked it
up, put it on. I know one guy that got his 95 hours and
quit school. All he wanted was the ring. He didn't
give a damn about the diploma. But I have an
interesting ring story though. I get
my ring. I go duck hunting and I've got this red
Irish Setter that stubborn, won't go in the water.
It's cold and when it's cold your hands shrink.
This is a few years after I was graduated. And I'm
holding the dog with my left hand and I'm pointing
to the duck in this 20 foot deep canal. And I go like
this, you know, swing my hand, go get it, and the
ring flew off and went into this canal. And it was
about 30 degrees. I took all my clothes off. I beat
the dog around the head and shoulders and dove in
that stupid rice pond. And the mud was, must have
been 10 foot deep. I never could find it. It just
liked to kill me. Well, so I ordered another ring. I
put the ring on. Da-da-da-da-da-da, I go down the
road. Years later, actually in 1998, I think it
was, might have been 97, I had this Aggie named J.D.
Salinas who worked for me as a controller when I was
a controller. And he's flying from Laredo to
Hidalgo County with me. And we're in a little plane
and he gets sick of his stomach. And he throws up in
my lap in the back of that plane. And I said,
Salinas, how long have you been working for me not
counting today? And I said, here's what you do. You
know, I said, he was sitting over here and I put my
ring up above him on the ceiling of the plane. I
said, just stare at my ring and concentrate on it.
Count the stars. Do anything you can. Just
concentrate on that ring and you won't be sick.
We're going to land here in about 10 minutes and
just don't do this to me again. After we landed, He
said, I got a question for you. You older Aggies,
y'all got different rings than we got, right? And I
said, no, it's the same ring. Class of 91 has the
same ring. Class of 72 has and all this kind of
stuff. And he said, no, your ring's backward. And I
said, what are you talking about, my ring's
backwards? It's just like yours. We took the ring
off, and on all Aggie rings, the guns are over here,
and the star is over here, except mine. And I looked
at that, and I looked at his ring. There were two
other Aggies that worked in that office. I called
them in. I said, bring your rings in here. We had a
major emergency. I looked at it, and my ring was
totally reversed. And so I called the ring clerk.
This was on a Friday afternoon. I called the ring
clerk, and I said, look, did something go on back
when I was there that caused this to happen, all
this kind of stuff? And I explained it to her, and
she said, Jimmy, we got another one. And she just
hollered at the back and said, you know, we've had
three of these or whatever it is, but all of them
have been corrected. So just bring yours in and
we'll get it corrected. And I was on my way down to
get it corrected and I thought, no, wait a minute.
I'm going to keep it. So I kept it. And as best I know,
this only Aggie ring like that is completely
reversed. The guns, my guns, as the ring faces out
with the numbers, the guns are supposed to be on the
right side and the star is supposed to be on the left
and mine is just the opposite of that. But it's
exactly the same... Everything else is exactly
the same. It's all the same stuff just a
different... What happened was this crest
probably goes on last and whoever did it reversed
the crest. I'm trying to think of all the events and
or traditions that are important to A&M. Final
review. Is that important? Oh, yeah. Describe
what it meant to go through final review. It was a
real sad day for me. I remember that day. I remember
that I was... First did your junior year. Yeah, but
my senior year is when it was real sad. Junior year
was a happy deal because, boy, all of a sudden you
take your shoes off and you're walking on grass.
Boy, what a wonderful feeling. No, the junior year
was great because... Well, I knew by that time that
my senior year I was going to be on core staff and,
you know, that it was going to be lots of fun. And it
was a little bit sad in the extent that I was leaving
my outfit and going to another dormitory and
stuff. But junior year was lots of fun. I mean, you
just lived from the time that you do your first
push-up. You lived the time you put those boots on.
And so, you know, by then we'd already bought our
boots. Where did you get yours? I actually bought
mine from another senior, a guy named Richardson,
in an outfit down below. What did you pay for it? Oh,
I don't know. I think maybe $150 or something. Did
you sell them or keep them? I kept them. I bronzed
them. You still have them? I still have them. I
bronzed them and made lampshades out of them. Why
are eggy boots important? They cost a lot, not in
terms of dollars. Hey, that's a good thought. I
like that. I don't have anything that I spent more
money on than that. I mean more sweat equity on than
those Aggie boots. But I did agree. I had a saber
because I was on staff and saber harness and all
that kind of stuff and I did agree to sell them to a
junior in my outfit and he'd agree that it was all
brand new, the Sabre, I mean the Sabre holster, I
wasn't going to sell the Sabre because I still have
that right next to the boots but I agreed to sell
everything else for two or three hundred dollars
whatever it was and I remember I was so sad at the end
of that that when that guy, that junior comes up and
says hey give me your spurs and give me your, you
know, harness and all this kind of stuff and here's
the money. I told him to keep the money and give it,
and I said you can keep that money if you promise to
give this to somebody else next year. So as far as I
know they may still be on campus if somebody's
honored that. But it, that was, that was real sad.
May 6, 1972 was the day I graduated and it was...
Describe commencement. Well, everybody came. I
mean, I don't know if they still come now, but there
wasn't anybody that didn't show up at
commencement.
When I got across the stage and Jack Williams
handed me my diploma, I get off the stage and I'm out
in the parking lot and I said, boy, I just got to take
a look at it. I opened it up and the tube was empty.
And so I called Lacey, Bob Lacey, who was Cooper's
guy over there, and said, hey, What is the deal with
my diploma? And he said, I had taken a
correspondence course from UT and barely got it in
in time. And he didn't think I was going to get it in
in time. And so they didn't order one. And so I got
mine about two or three days later or something
like that. How big a crowd came from your family and
friends? Well, everybody. Everybody. I mean, any
cousin I ever met, everybody was there. My brother
was making, fooling himself, screaming, knock
him out, John, or whatever it was. He was hollering
and stuff like that. No, G. Riley White was
absolutely full, standing room only. Is it
important that every name is called, every hand?
Yeah. Yeah, I think so. But everybody walks across
the state. And I just thought of the name of that
football announcer, C.K. Weston. CK what? Esten.
Oh, CK Esten. Yeah, that's right. Good afternoon,
football fans. Welcome to Kyleville. Because I
think a year or so before you got here, what he would
do is he would flip the mic off and then say
something with some three- and four-letter words
in it with the mic turned off. One day, he said, that
ought to take the son of a bitch's... And Rutter
summoned him to his office on Monday. And he was
scared to death. And he went in and Rutter told him
to come in and sit down. And Rutter stared a hole
through him as he was going through the chair in
fear. And then Rutter burst out laughing at him.
and then told him, look, you know darn good and
well, now don't ever do that again. It was funny.
I'll tell you the story I was going to tell you about
Les Appel. When I was a senior, the University of
Texas had done away, or were doing away with their
student government. Remember when Bob Binder and
all those people just abolished the student
government? And they had decided they wanted to
rename the student senate. Before they did that,
they had voted to rename
Their mascot, the Armadillo, remember that?
Well, Saturday morning before a game, or maybe
Sunday morning after a game, I was giving one of
those speeches to the Association of Former
Students, after one of the games, and Les Appelt,
at the time, was president of the Association of
Former Students. I think they had just built maybe
Appelt Hall, or maybe were fixing to, but anyway,
he was president of the Association at the time.
And boy, I felt real bad. It was a Sunday morning,
and we'd I'd probably been awake two hours before
that. And he comes up to me afterwards and he said,
boy, you're in bad shape this morning, aren't you?
I said, yes, I sure am. And he said, well, let's go
out and get some breakfast somewhere. I've got an
idea I want to run by you. And I said, what's that?
And he said, well, you know, UTU is thinking about
doing away with these longhorn and putting in
armadillos. And I said, yeah, isn't that the
stupidest thing you ever heard? And he said, yes,
and we need to capitalize on that. And I said, what
do you have in mind, Mr. Appleton? He said, I want
you to go out and print 5,000 or so bumper stickers.
Do you remember those? Were you hearing one of
those bumper stickers? They were everywhere on
campus. And a little armadillo, orange armadillo
digging, and it said, dig them dillos. We printed
5,000 of them. Les just loved them. I sent it to
Houston. He said, oh, God, we've got to have more.
So he printed 20,000 more, 25,000 bumper
stickers. They were all over the bonfire. They
were all over on the helmets working on the bonfire
and the whole bit. And he called me about a week
before the game. He said, I want you to get some
freshmen. And I want one of those on every car in the
parking lot at Kyle Field the day of the game. He
said, I don't care how many freshmen. I'll pay for
it. Whatever's got to happen, you get that done. I
said, OK. Get it done. He prints 10,000 more. About
four days before the game, He drives down to
college station and he said, he got me a new idea,
Sharp. And I said, what's that? He said, I want you
to go find some armadillo. And I want these
freshmen to get them. I want about 20 or 30 of them.
And I want you to spray, remember this? I want you to
spray paint them, burn orange, and I want them
released on the field while the UT band is in the
middle of the field. And I said, okay, may have to
pay for this one. These armadillos are hard to
find. He said, whatever. Hang no expense. I said,
okay. So I get two outfits of freshmen, buy them
some, I'm sure it was Cokes or Dr. Pepper, to go out
into the woods. And they did. They came up with 32
armadillos. And we spray painted them. burnt
orange, and I'm sitting up in the stands of my date
thinking, okay, let's see how this works out. And
here come these freshmen, four foot lockers full
of armadillos, one from the east, one from the
west, one from the north, one from the south.
Here's the UT band with big berth of block T
formation the whole bit, and boom, they dump out
these armadillos, and they herd them toward the
band, and the armadillos run from four sides into
the band. I don't know if you remember this or not,
but that band quit the field. I mean, it disrupted
halftime. And I and one of yours and mine's
favorite administrators came up into the stands
and said, you've
got real trouble here. And I said, why are you
talking to me, Dean? He said, well, because the
first, second, third, fourth, and fifth freshman
that we caught immediately said, you the guy. Was
this Coldis? Hannigan. Oh, this is... And I said,
yeah, well, nothing bad going to happen, is it? And
he said, well, you could get kicked out of school
for something like that. And I said, oh, then we've
got a real big problem. And he said, what's that?
And I said, the President's Association for
Student Finance. He said, you've got to be
kidding. Apparently, from what I heard, goes up
into the press box and asked Les about it. And Les
was still bragging about it. I mean, he told
everybody. He said, watch this. Watch what's
fixing to happen. He goes in there, and Dean
Hannigan does some kind of deal, said, did you see
the armadillo? Wasn't that just the best BS you
have ever seen in your whole life? And Dean said,
yes, sir, it certainly was. And so Dean comes up and
said, this didn't even happen, did it, Sharp? I
said, no, sir, I didn't see nothing. No, that was
good. No, that's a good one. And it did not make a
single paper in the state. How they did that, I
don't know, but it was good. It would make a few
newspapers in the world today. Oh, my God. Isn't
that the truth? I mean, I bought every paper I could
thinking, oh, Lord, we're in trouble. All right.
Back to the, let's see, one last tradition that I
had not mentioned is muster. Do you remember when
you first went to a muster? Yep, I do. Back then it
was being held on the front of the systems building
out here. It's where we had the muster. And I can't
remember who the muster speaker was. The most
memorable muster speaker was, we had... Max
Cleland, when he had just returned from Vietnam,
and now a U.S. Senator, but he had just returned
from Vietnam and had his legs. I think he was one of
the speakers. But the most memorable muster was
the one after Rutter died, when they called his
name and the entire student body, 10,000 people,
whatever it was, answered here for him. But I think
my junior year was moved into G. Raleigh. And that
was the year I was in charge. The student life
chairman had to put on the muster and that's where
we're from. And do you think muster is an important
tradition at A&M? Oh yeah. I think all those
traditions, particularly muster is. What is the
central factor of all of those? Of all the
traditions? Bonding with each other. Every one of
them have to do with You're not just another person
in the world that we don't care anything about.
You're an Aggie. We, even if I never met you, we went
through things together that were similar and
there's a reason that if I have any kind of way to
show preference toward you, I'm going to do it over
somebody else and not be shameful about it. What
creates Aggie spirit? No. What is Aggie Spirit?
Boy, I'd like to find a person that can define that.
I'm not sure you can put a definition of it, but from
my perspective as I went through this institution
and granted leaning heavily on experiences in the
core, I think a big part of what creates Aggie
Spirit is folks that go through the same trials
together. and learned that I think Aggie spirit is
just the opposite of individualism. Instead of
being caught up in yourself, you're caught up in a
family, a whole big family. And I think, and it's
not, I mean, it's not just a myth that people, that
once you get out, you forget about it because I've
seen it. I've given it and I've received it. I mean,
I know there are people People that would call me
from when I first ran for controller and didn't run
against, it's a different deal when you run
against, you know, two Aggies that run against
each other, but when, you know, when I first ran for
controller or railroad commissioner, I mean, I
get people call me up, call me up that was a chairman
of the Republican Party in one county and said,
I'll resign if you want me to, or I can just work for
you behind the scenes, or whatever you need. It's a
bond stronger than anything else you can find
short of religion. Might almost be.
Were you aware this was developing within you when
you were an undergraduate?
When did you begin to feel this?
I don't know. I'm sure we all noticed it was
happening when we were there just because we were
good friends but keep in mind most of us that I ran
around with were people who outside our universe
of a couple hundred kids in high school didn't know
anybody else so this was our first thrust out into
the world we didn't know if this was usual or
unusual and stuff like that until we kind of got out
into the world and found out that there's nothing
nothing like this deal. But yeah, I think you
experience the first time two or three of you are
dressed down or humiliated or have to go through
some common obstacle together is when it first
starts bonding. And I guess maybe it grows a little
more when you get out and you find out that nobody
else has been through this but you. I'm not even
sure Aggie jokes aren't helpful. It brings
people... Do you and your close friends think it's
okay for Aggies to tell Aggie jokes when they're
only Aggies in the room? When they're only Aggies?
Yeah, most of them I'd say when they're only
Aggies, but if it's somebody who starts telling
them... I mean, you could have ten Aggies in the
room and they might tell one or two or something,
but if Some other guy says, well, I want to join in,
and then nobody laughs at that. That's what I've
told people, that it's okay for an Aggie to tell an
Aggie joke if it's within an Aggie setting, but no
outsider. But sometimes that doesn't fly too
well. Yeah,
nobody likes outsiders. I mean, I don't allow my
family to tell Aggie jokes. Now, what propelled
you into leadership? and on the campus? Poor, one
way or the other. Okay. I mean, it was, I mean, I, I,
people always ask you, said, God, why'd you get
into politics? All this stuff you have to go
through and all this stuff people say about you and
dig up, you know, and all this kind of stuff. And my
response to that, after thinking about it a long
time, is that I have never had any opponent for a
political office be to me as mean and nasty as the
weakest sophomore in my outfit was. I
think
I learned during that time to filter what's
important and what's not, and so you get some bozo
running against you that's screaming and
hollering about this or that. You're not even in
the same league with the people that were
screaming at me every morning for a year or two. It
kind of toughens you a little. Early on, did you
dream of running for student body president or
corps commander or what? No, I probably didn't
start thinking about that until my sophomore year
when I was elected sophomore class president.
And... And... I would say shortly after that,
though, I thought there was an opportunity to be.
All right. Why a student body president instead of
a corps commander?
If you'd had a choice, I presume you picked, you
sought the one you wanted more? I don't know. I
think it's two different sets of skills. I mean,
you can, political skills, getting along with
people and stuff like that, you know, work fine and
getting things done. Things don't happen in the
Corps and the military through compromise.
Describe how you went about organizing to get
ready to run for student body president. Describe
how you organized it and your campaign and so
forth. Well, there were, there were, I have, I've
said on numerous occasions that politics at A&M is
much more difficult and much more intertwined
than anything you'll experience in Texas. I mean
in Texas you've got South Texas that's much
different from East Texas and Dallas and Houston
that are different and San Antonio is different
and the Panhandle is different and stuff like that
but at A&M you had the Corps and if you had the Corps
and they were happy that's a pretty serious block
vote so you had to be number one in their eyes And if
you did that back then, you were well on your way.
But you also had the dormitories that worked on the
bonfire. And then you had folks that didn't work on
the bonfire that were kind of kickers, you know,
the country folks and folks like that. You had the
jocks that didn't pay much attention to anything
outside of Caulfield or G. Riley White. You had
folks that lived off campus. And then you had folks
who lived off campus that were married that never
came on the campus except to take courses and stuff
like that. And you had folks that were for the
bonfire. You had some folks, believe it or not,
even back then, that were against it. And so you had
to figure out ways do that stuff. We organized,
actually it was kind of between mine and
Caperton's administration. Kent was right
before me. We put like, I don't know if they still
have refrigerators in the room, but the student
government used to own those refrigerators and
rent them to the student. The bus system that was
first put in was put in my senior year. We proved
that. I forget, some outfit out of Austin,
Enterprise Transportation or something like
that, where the buses that now run kind of stem from
all that stuff. As you're getting ready to
organize your campaign to run for, who did you
have, what kind of supporting organization did
you try to create? I would go, I went to those, all
those clubs that I was a member of because I didn't
want to eat in Duncan Dining Hall. Back to those
groups. But the Corps then, I mean if you, the Corps
didn't split its votes. And my guess is they
probably don't now, but I don't know. And who were
your primary opponents? Well, Roger Miller. And
he was a civilian student? He was vice president of
the student body. He was Kent's roommate. And so he
should have been heir to the civilian side of
campus, which theoretically had a lot more votes.
But I was able to go into the civilian side because I
was in those clubs or because of, his position on
Bonfire or whatever, in order to take some of those
off, and he would, he could never have been
successful in taking any significant number of
core votes away from me. Alright, so there were
only two of you. Did you have a slate of some of the
candidates? Not that year. The year before we had
that deal with Kent started. And did the core, was
there any kind of action the core leadership took
to endorse you? You mean like a primary? Or a
resolution, or did they pass the word? Ah, yeah.
Well, there were rumors, of course, that the Corps
held a primary, that the Yale leaders would go to
each dorm and poll the seniors, or soon-to-be
seniors, and say, okay, you've got a couple of guys
in the Corps that want to run. One is David Moore,
who's on Corps staff, and the other one is this guy
named Sharp who did. And the rumors were that you
would go to those guys and say, we can't have two
from the Corps. Which one would y'all do? And the
L.A.ers would tabulate that. Sure rumor, of
course. During the campaign, about how long did it
last? Oh, three months. Three, four months. So
there were posters and placards. Yeah, posters
and placards. Ads in the back. Oh no, it cost money.
Slipped flyers under the doors. Rallies, we'd go
to one side of campus and speak, the other side of
campus and speak. Were there any, there were no
presidential debates. We'd do it at the
battalion. They'd go to the battalion and they'd
ask us questions or maybe a panel of folks ask us
questions. Nothing on the radio? No. Okay. There
was a limit to what we could spend. I think it was
like $2,000 or something like that. But there were
no MSC ballroom open big sessions where the two of
you made speeches to the same crowd? One, but it
wasn't at the MSC. It was in front of Walton Hall.
They had a big trailer out there. Anybody wanted to
run would come out and talk to whoever showed up to
listen. Which usually wasn't too many listening.
Did you have any kind of pre-election information
about how you were doing? Yeah, I knew when Roger
said he was willing to consider alternatives to
Bonfire that I was doing pretty well.